Larry, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
Awesome to have you here.
Yeah, thanks, Michael.
It's great to be here.
Yeah.
I saw your project, PyView, and you're like, oh, hey,
maybe you could just give it a little shout out.
I'm like, this is super neat, the way this thing works.
And as most people know who listen,
I'm a big fan of web development.
The last episode that we just released,
not actually the one, time shifting
because of recording podcasts, was with all the creators
of the popular Python web frameworks as a panel.
And that was super popular.
So here we are back with another web topic, PyView.
And it's got a really, really unique twist.
And I think people are going to dig it.
It's quite interesting.
Yeah, thanks.
No, yeah, I think I've been doing technology for a long time
now, and I think the web has always just been amazing.
It's an amazing platform.
And so I think that's why people kind of gravitate towards, you know, web frameworks and interesting
web technologies and what can you do now and how can we make it easier?
And yeah, it's funny.
I did think PyView would resonate with you a little bit just because I know that, I don't
know if this is true, but it seems like you do appreciate really not just like, you know,
obviously Python, but web technologies and especially like embracing web technologies
and maybe not necessarily kind of hiding them.
Yeah, exactly.
That is one of the things that really appealed to me because there are some Python frameworks that build webmaps, but their goal is to pretend that HTML and CSS is really bad.
It's like, you don't want to write a simile.
We're going to put that away from you.
You don't need to see this HTML or the CSS or any of those things.
Get it away.
And I feel like something is lost there.
Building on the web is just like the perfect clay.
It is so malleable and it can become almost anything
that you want it to be.
And a lot of those frameworks, I think they just miss that.
And I don't feel like what you built does.
So I think we're having a good time talking about it.
LARRY HOCHBERGER: No, thanks.
Yeah, I'm excited to get into it.
JOHN MCCUTCHAN: But quick introduction.
Larry, who are you?
What do you feel?
LARRY HOCHBERGER: Yeah, so my name is Larry O'Granick.
I've been a software developer for, I guess,
let's just say over 25 years now.
I won't age myself too much, but through that time, obviously, I've done a bunch of different things.
I worked at startups.
I worked at big companies.
I've been freelancing for a few years even.
And so my early career was more kind of on the C pro side, a lot of back-end work, diving into Java and then Scala.
And when I was doing freelancing, obviously, the language of the tech kind of depended on what the client wanted to do.
and what the project entailed.
But that's kind of when I started to get more serious about using Python.
And, you know, nowadays I work at a startup in the construction industry.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
But we're really trying to invest heavily in technology and software.
Like, we're trying to be a technology-enabled home builder.
And so we have a huge investment.
And we have, I mean, you know, not necessarily a huge tech team,
But, you know, spending any money and employment on tech is kind of a big deal in this industry.
And I think it's an industry that hasn't really had technology, you know, get great adoption.
You know, different people are doing different things.
But overall, there's been a hard time to kind of get it in that process.
But there's a lot of areas for improvement.
And so, you know, we're trying to make that process better, faster, smoother.
yeah i think there's a lot of possibility for pick your underserved by tech specialization and build
businesses around there if if you're a python developer or any kind of developer but if
if you really have the skill to build things like connecting apis and automations and and stuff
it's it's just such fertile ground it's like wow there's nobody building stuff here that is like
good let's go i could do this right 100 and i think yeah like to maybe to your point there's a
lot of kind of low-hanging fruit or it's just like just even getting some of the information in people's
heads in a structured way and even having like different processes defined in a structured way
like you get huge improvements from that and this is kind of just like why we love technology right
is you have these building blocks and it's like oh now that we have this in a structured format we
can actually do these interesting things with it that we couldn't do before because it was just you
on someone's notepad or whatever.
And so yeah, you're right.
I think there's still a lot of issues like that.
And home building is for sure a big one.
And yeah, it's been interesting.
I mean, our main actually construction platform
that manages our construction projects--
so we have an interesting part of that, what you were saying,
is it can be hard in underserved technologies.
There are underserved areas to have that domain expertise.
And so you have to find a good partner.
And one of the things we've done is we actually build the homes.
So we're not just writing software for other builders to use, but we're building homes ourselves.
And that's been a huge benefit because we have people building homes that we can sit down with and say, like, does this make sense?
Like, does it not make sense? Like, why, why not?
And, you know, we have to obviously push on both sides sometimes because we are trying to change things, right?
But that's been, I think it'd be almost impossible to do without.
It's the dog fooding equivalent, the software dog fooding, right?
Exactly.
You're building.
They're building your building, so then you can.
I know, and it can be frustrating to get these phone calls like,
why is this working?
Are you going to make me late for this or that?
But again, having those really strong partnerships, I don't know,
it's critical to be able to get something that actually works.
Yeah, well, it sounds actually super exciting.
I mean, I know you sold it.
It's like, oh, we're just building, just working in the building.
No, this is cool.
It's cool.
Yeah, and for the last couple of years, I've been doing a lot on our kind of more AI services team.
And I'm not a machine learning researcher, but most of the work I've been doing has been around kind of productionizing that work and building services around it.
And we've done really cool stuff like with, I mean, just like pricing models for the homes, which is kind of more traditional machine learning stuff.
and then like schedule simulation stuff.
And more recently, a lot of LLM-based stuff,
both for kind of like, you know, rag style chat workflows.
Like you can imagine you're in the field and you're like,
you know, is this the right tile pattern?
And maybe that's buried on like page 500 of a Google spreadsheet
or something like that.
And being able to pull that quickly is huge.
And now some of the stuff we're trying to do
is more around automating schedule updates.
So someone can kind of walk through a home
and just do kind of stream of consciousness like,
this is the status of like this,
this is running late, whatever.
And then we have a multi-stage process,
but we kind of turn the video into images
and turn the transcription into notes
and then try and see what's in the photo.
Is that the right tile pattern?
Is that the right stove?
And use LLMs for different parts of this process
to kind of come up with recommendations at the end.
oh it actually looks like the drywall was is totally installed and we can mark that as done
or or whatever and you know having the automation is actually super helpful because having up-to-date
schedules drives a lot of stuff right it's just like the efficiency of having making sure people
are on site and not delayed uh is huge so that's so many touch points of so many subcontractors
and things right like when is the plumber gonna be here well they need to be here when the
inspection for plumbing is here. But that got you know, like, it's people who haven't gone through like, somehow some kind of a house and I got a big
home home improvements, not quite the right word. But like this big out outside projects with like a barbecue thing and so on done. And
wow, after doing that, I'm like, there's I've got a lot of ideas for making this.
No, I know, right. And some of those delays are like super costly. And it's funny, because like a lot of things in
In terms of like budgeting, like if you buy too much material, that's bad because you're wasting money.
But if you buy too little, that's actually even worse because like maybe, you know, you need more whatever lumber and maybe there's, you know, two weeks, you know, turnaround time to get it.
And so. Yeah. And again, if you have to reschedule things like inspections, who knows when the next available one is, it might push the project out, you know, weeks.
And so, yeah, there's a lot of interdependencies,
and a lot of, like you said, people.
And communication remains a very tricky problem.
That's always one of the things.
Well, it sounds awesome.
And I'm also interested to see if your project at all
touches on that.
But let's dive in.
Let's dive into PyView.
Now, the first thing I want to point out here with PyView
is it is not PyWebView, which has been around for three or four
years at minimum.
And I imagine that a lot of people have seen this.
PyWebView is a way to embed basically a browser
into something that you can wrap as a desktop app.
PyView, totally different.
What's the elevator pitch in PyView?
TREVOR GARCIA: Totally different, yeah.
So the elevator pitch in PyView is basically--
it's one of those self-referential things.
Hopefully I won't try and say Phoenix LiveView.
But when you're building modern web apps--
and this is one of the things that I have seen--
if you want to have this rich interactivity,
you want to have a really rich client experience,
maybe you reach for something like React or Vue.
Those are great frameworks,
but then you also have your backend server
maybe managing the state and the database
and those relationships,
maybe talking to other servers,
maybe that's in Python or another language, whatever.
You have to manage these two different pieces
and they each have their own state.
There can be a lot of complexity
when you, yeah, the client is showing something
slightly different than the server or vice versa
and having to synchronize that state and keep them in sync.
Plus, often there's a lot of glue code in between them, right?
Like having to just go from the Python backend
to the jobs frontend and back and forth.
Even when things are in the same language,
like I've worked on TypeScript apps
where it's TypeScript backend and frontend,
it's kind of rare that you actually share a lot of code
for that layer.
things end up drifting anyway and being different.
And so PyView, the idea is,
what if you can have your backend server
manage all your state,
you're writing all your application logic in Python,
you're just rendering HTML like you would for a static site,
but when different interactions happen,
like when user clicks a button or enters a form field
or different things happen on the friend end.
We send an event to the server.
The server processes the event and changes its state.
So for example, maybe, I mean, it's a simple counter example,
but you press plus on the counter.
Then the server increments the count by one.
It does a full re-render, but it does kind of a diff and says,
"Oh, actually, looking at this full page,
all I need to do is tell the friend to change zero to one."
And so it efficiently sends that over a WebSocket connection.
And I feel like there's already a lot there that maybe that wasn't the clearest description.
But the idea is kind of more like, can we get SPA-level interactivity,
including things like multi-user presence stuff, server push, really fast UI updates,
really fast local navigation, not doing full page reloads.
But on the back end, our mental model really is something like a traditional static,
you know not static site generator but like a static rendering um thing so i don't know
was that clear yeah i think uh yes it sounds like a lot and what i think is cool about pi view
is that it takes a lot of that and it just makes it automatic over a simple programming api right
yeah exactly so that's the thing is you don't have to think about a lot of this kind of plumbing
And this is the one kind of -- I mean, we'll get into this more.
Like, this is something that I --
an idea that I came up with.
This is something that has been around for a little while
on the Elixir side.
It comes from this thing called Phoenix Live View.
But, yeah, you know, a framework actually can take care
of a lot of this for us.
And so, as developers, all we really need to worry about
is updating our state when events, you know, come in,
and rendering, you know, doing a render of --
this is, you know, given the state,
what should we render to the back end?
And the framework manages the WebSecret connection.
It manages the messages.
It manages doing the diffing.
And so we don't have to think about any of that.
We really just need to think about how do I update my state
and how do I render the website?
And so it ends up being really powerful just having
these very simple building blocks.
And this is the kind of thing that--
I mean, I'm not anti-JavaScript in general,
but obviously we're using JavaScript on the front end.
But by having this very kind of generic JavaScript layer that just knows really simple things like,
here's how I send messages when a button is pressed or when a text field changes.
There's very simple building blocks, but you end up being this very powerful system when you bring them together.
And you don't really have to write JavaScript for live interactions because, again, most of the things are very simple.
It's like, you know, I need to change whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah. So your project is pretty new, which I'm hoping to shine a light on it because I think it's going to get a lot of attention out in the audience.
Alessio points out that, hey, this is kind of like HTMX and Django with fragments, but over WebSockets.
And yeah, I feel like it does have some HTMX vibes.
And for those of you who haven't tried it,
HTMX is like, you sprinkle just a couple of extra attributes
on there, and then somehow behind the scenes,
there's additional communication that you don't worry about.
It's just say, oh, if somebody clicks this image,
actually do this server thing and replace part of the page--
maybe the image, maybe something else--
with the server HTML response.
How do you feel that PyView, Phoenix LiveView
sort of relates to that, and like Datastar,
who I'm going to have on the--
Yeah, no, I think that's right.
I think that's a very thoughtful comment
because I think that is a lot of it.
And if I had to think in terms of comparisons
to different frameworks,
I think doing something with HTMX
probably is the closest comparison
because, again, it's HTML-based.
We are responding to events
and wiring up to the server
and processing them and sending back HTML fragments.
I think the difference is that
PyView is a little more structured, right?
Because with HTMLX,
you have a lot more control,
which can be a good thing,
but you're wiring up these things
yourself to a certain extent saying,
like, when you click on this,
call this back-end route and replace
the contents of this element with the response from that.
On the back-end, you're sending full HTML,
and things like that.
So that's one difference.
So yes, it is over WebSockets, PyView versus HTMX.
The other thing is we do have this kind of diffing technology
where we're only sending what actually changed.
So we can go into more detail at some point
about how the templating works.
But for something like changing from 0 to 1,
it's like we're really just sending back the 1.
And obviously, as the page gets more complex,
the diffs get more complex, but we're just sending the diffs.
And again, the framework kind of handles--
as a developer, you don't have to think about what part of the page
do I update.
And it's kind of encoded to a certain extent in your template,
but it's kind of more hands off.
And so you do give up some flexibility,
but then the framework kind of gets
to handle a lot of things for you in a smoother integrated way,
I would say.
Yeah, just handles it.
Yeah, with HTMX, which I am a fan of,
you have to think about every little piece.
And you say, if somebody interacts with this part,
then I want this action to happen.
And then this thing over here, you know,
these parts of the pages are going to be
where the response of the server gets redirected back into.
And it seems like it's more just handled a little bit here.
Let's talk a little bit about Phoenix Live View.
Because while your project is pretty new, Phoenix Live View has, I don't know how old it is, a couple years it looks like, but it's got 6,700 stars.
So it's a really solid foundation.
And your project, what's the relationship between PyView and Phoenix Live View?
Right.
So Live View is obviously the inspiration for PyView.
I think when I started thinking about there's got to be a better way to building these kinds
of apps in Python, I came across Phoenix Live View and really loved this model.
Especially just, I don't know, I do like thinking this event based system.
And it seemed like you get all the really nice things for free.
So it definitely was the inspiration.
And then when I started working on PyView, I had the thought like, well, they've already
kind of figured out a good model for how this works and how things fit together. And they
already have a good client side story for implementing the client side component of this. So what
I tried to do with PyView is actually use, you know, I ship their, the Phoenix LiveView
front end client JavaScript is what you're running in a PyView app on your front end.
And I kind of implemented a Python backend. So if you think about LiveView as a protocol,
which to be clear, it is not.
Like, there's sort of just some, you know,
have to do some reverse engineering of how things work.
It's not really documented.
Because I think, you know, on their end,
it really is an internal implementation detail
about how the front end communicates with the back end.
But, you know, we get the-- that really was a huge boost
for me because I get to use their client JavaScript,
which handles all the diffing.
And again, a big part of it too is just kind of they
do have a really nice design.
So like you mentioned, yeah, Phoenix Live View's been around
for a while.
It's a very popular project.
I think if you are in this ecosystem--
so it's written in Elixir, which is a different programming
language that runs on the Erlang virtual machine.
And just to be clear, it's a totally great language.
It has a lot of really cool features.
It's nothing against Elixir.
It's just that for different reasons,
I wanted this paradigm in the Python world,
because I'm working-- especially at work,
I'm working on Python apps.
And that's the kind of world I live in.
And we can't change everything over to different languages.
Well, I'll throw it out there for you.
You don't have to take the bullets.
But I think functional programming languages
are super interesting.
They apply really well in certain to solve certain problems.
And I know some people, it's the hammer for all nails.
But for most people, functional programming
is just not what they're working in.
Things where you can change variables and have state
turn out to be more productive ways to write code,
even if it maybe is not provably as correct or as thread safe
or whatever.
So if most people are going to adopt it,
most people are not using functional programming languages
and Erlang in particular, Python happens
to be more popular than Erlang.
Yeah. Yeah. I'll let you take those bullets, Michael. But yeah, I mean, look, different languages are good for different use cases, right? But again, I think it's a really great idea that I thought, let me steal this. And so, yeah, this is something that was written by, I think, Chris McCord is like the author of Live View. And it's been around, yeah, for a long time. It's gone through different iterations. But yeah, it's incredibly popular in that ecosystem. And yeah, they've done, I think, really great things with it.
Yeah, and let's--
I just want to give a little shout out.
If you go to the Phoenix Live View GitHub, which of course
I'll link in the show notes, there's
a live demo on-fly that you can check out.
And there's also a two-minute video.
Watch the two-minute video.
It really shows, like, OK, this is quite an interesting
and quite capable technology.
It might sound like, oh, you can't do very much with this,
because, I don't know, it seems like it's only built to make a few things easy.
After watching what he built there with this app with Phoenix Live View,
I was impressed.
It's quite flexible.
No, for sure.
And I think it took a lot of work to get there too, right,
just to give them a lot of credit.
Because a lot of the things, I mean, it's interesting
because once you take this approach to having everything over WebSockets,
well, then actually it's pretty great
because it opens up a lot of things that could be hard,
things like presence, knowing different users that are on the same documenter page as you,
or server pushes.
You get a lot of that stuff, not for free, but it's easy when that's your base layer
is everything over WebSockets.
But then some things like file uploads, as part of this they invented a way to do file
uploads over WebSockets.
Oh, that's interesting.
Yeah, because how do you do that?
WebSockets do support both text and binary messages.
So it's not as crazy as you would think,
but there is a limit to--
you have to chunk it and stuff like that.
But so it supports that.
I mean, again, we can talk more about file,
but is there other options for also going direct to S3
or different things?
But yeah, a lot of work has gone into this,
including around the optimization.
Like, what is that message format?
How do you send minimal diffs for not just things
like simple template changes, but when
you have lists or components or maybe
of huge lists of things, how do you efficiently manage that
on both the server side and the client side?
And so I think there's a lot of great ideas for dealing
with this that were pioneered by Phoenix Live View
that I get to come along and just steal.
JOHN MUELLER: That's cool.
Here's the Python version.
Yeah, exactly.
And I think that was a lot of the focus early on
was trying to stick to this just because, again,
PyView, like you said, it is very early days.
And it is just kind of like a personal side project.
Although I am using it at my day job
for a couple of production apps now, which has been fantastic.
But as a single developer with Python
with a side project, it was great
to have a little bit of a roadmap on if I follow these patterns,
I'm probably going to end up in a good place.
Of course, I did try and make things more Pythonic where I
could.
So PyView is very heavily typed.
So we're using obviously Python types for everything,
whereas Elixir, I think they're adding types now.
It's been an ongoing thing to add some gradual typing
like Python has done.
But Python is a little further along in terms
of the typing story there.
And I think over time, maybe we'll
diverge a little bit in terms of making the APIs more
Pythonic to the extent anything is not.
But yeah, for sure, having this kind of at least
this core level protocol has been useful to follow.
Yeah, they've kind of worked out how the exchange works
and all those different things.
You're like, OK, let me do the--
Yeah, and I sort of have a roadmap to,
oh, these are the problems you're going to get into.
Because that's when I first started PyView.
So I did start it a couple years ago,
but again, very sparse.
Like, can I get anything to show up on the page over WebSockets?
and then kind of iterated.
And it's interesting to--
when I started the first version of the LiveView client
JavaScript they used, then figuring out
what changed between that and the next version
and the next version and the next version.
You get to see the gradual progression of, oh,
these are some problems we're going to run into,
because they've sort of addressed that in this future version.
But I still have to deal with it.
But I'll get there at some point.
Yeah, go look at the closed GitHub issues.
You're like, whoa, there's a lot of conversation
around this one.
Yeah.
Interesting.
So I think a nice thing to do for people
would be to just do a quick walkthrough,
because you've got a nice little getting started thing.
We've just got to be careful that most people are listening,
not seeing.
But let's talk through--
let's maybe talk through what it means to create just
like a real simple program in PyView.
Sure.
Yeah, so I do--
yeah, so the documentation is something, again,
it's a work in progress.
But I did try to get started getting some things together.
So yeah, I do have a cookie cutter project.
And I think the first one in documentation,
if you check out the cookie cutter project,
it gives you a very quick project set up.
Sorry, I'm just going--
Yeah, for people who don't know,
cookie cutter is a way to take a pre-structured set of source
files of all varieties, even images and other things,
and say, I'm going to ask you a few questions.
I'm going to do a little text replace.
and I'm gonna generate that structure for you.
So a very nice way to kind of go like,
all right, we got everything set up
for you to get started, right?
- Right, exactly.
'Cause I really wanted to get, you know,
like part of the thought with Pyview
is I really do want it to be super easy to get started,
not just for other people, but also for myself, right?
Like if I have a new idea of something,
it's like I wanna go from zero to one super quickly,
and that's kind of been part of the motivation.
And so this cookie cutter is a great way to,
so you check out the cookie cutter,
And then you basically have a working example right away
with just the simple counter.
And so this example uses poetry for dependency management.
So if you do poetry install, and then it also
includes Just, which is a command line runner.
So Just, it's kind of like--
I don't know if you've talked about this before,
but if anyone's ever used Make Files or things like that
for doing common project tasks, Just is a tool like that,
but specifically written for these types of things.
And so if you use make files, you know there's
a lot of tricks you have to do to get it to work in the way
you want versus as a build tool.
And so Just kind of works the right way a lot easier
and something that kind of--
Yeah, exactly.
--we can be using more and more.
So if you check out the-- if you run the cookie cutter,
run poetry install, and then run Just,
it'll tell you to open localhost to 8,000 in your browser.
and you'll have a counter example up and running already.
And the kind of interesting thing,
if you want to play along with this more--
and I do have this in the docs in terms of what's going on here--
but it's a really good example to open up in Firefox or Chrome,
and then open the developer tools and the network tab.
And when you load the page, what you'll see is--
And this is kind of the live view motto is, right?
There's an initial page load, which is like the server.
So it goes to your view and it runs your templating logic.
And it returns that as just straight HTML, like a normal web page.
So if you turned off JavaScript, you'd still get the page back.
But if you have JavaScript on, which is obviously intention,
then what happens is included in that initial page load is some JavaScript that comes back.
Oh, so you have it open, Michael.
Yeah.
So if you...
There you go.
Yeah, exactly.
So the HTML is right there.
So that's like the full HTML of the page.
So yeah, if you had turned off JavaScript,
that part would still work.
But then if you click on the--
do you see in there a WebSocket connection in your--
Oh, yeah.
Somewhere.
Socket.
Yep.
So if you click on that, you can see the messages back and forth.
So you click on the Messages tab there.
Yeah.
And so you can see--
It's resting.
Right.
Yeah.
So there's a whole set of examples
or live interactive examples,
and people can just go to pyv.rocks
and click live examples and do this to see it, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, okay, this is super cool.
- You can see that message you have right there,
it says diff zero one.
So like zero is like the kind of slot in the template.
And so it says, now that should be one.
So you click, you know, plus again,
then the new message will be diff, you know, whatever.
And you can see this message says event increment.
So this is what goes to your backend
you're getting a click event for increment and you're sending back a response.
And so, yeah.
So does it like instrument your HTML with like a bunch of identifiers or something like that to then be able to do this?
Yeah.
And so that was one of the things that like I was I've been so unhappy with for a while with PyView is because like when I first started doing this,
I was like, OK, I want a nice HTML templating language.
Right.
And or maybe even it'd be better if it was pluggable,
if you could use like whatever templating language you want.
But the problem is, is most Python templating languages,
kind of the input is, you know, like your template
and, you know, some data and the output is like a string.
And for this, what we're trying to produce
is like a render tree.
And so really the mental model is a lot more like t-strings.
If people are familiar with t-strings,
where you have like a template, right?
your HTML template, and it's separated into static parts,
like strings, and dynamic parts, like things to be evaluated.
And that's kind of the LiveView model.
And the PyView model is like, basically, we take a template
and we convert it into a list of statics and dynamics.
And each dynamic, like each evaluation spot itself,
has static parts and dynamic parts.
And so we have to take an HTML template
and turn it into this render tree.
And so, again, this is like a huge pain point
because I couldn't find a templating language
that would let me kind of get that level of control.
And maybe there is one and I'm not familiar with it,
or maybe there is a way to get to these internals
and I'm not familiar with it.
But what I am doing was there is this library called IBIS,
which someone had wrote an open source
as like a kind of tutorial on how to write
your own templating language.
And so it's very similar to Jinja 2, but a lot simpler.
And so that was the initial template and language for PyView
because I could kind of hack it just enough to get both HTML
and also this kind of more template-like view that I need.
This is one of the things that I'm very excited about with,
like now that we have t-strings in 3.14,
is that I think that model, I mean, just maps so directly to this,
and I'm hopeful that we'll have a lot of different rendering libraries
or templating language for HTML.
Like I know there's already a good one, or it's a work in progress called TDOM
that people are working on to make kind of t-strings more HTML, not friendly,
not that they're not already, but there are certain things you want.
Like obviously you want to be able to just do all that escaping of user input
so it's not malicious, maybe even merging things in HTML attributes.
There's nicer things you can kind of do when you're thinking about the HTML use case, right?
But I like having a template as the core building block,
because if you can get to a template,
that's super easy to turn into the structure we need for a live view.
And I imagine there'll be multiple ways to do that in the future.
Yeah, very interesting.
It sounds a little bit like almost a concrete syntax tree of the DOM
that you've got to like, okay, we've got to understand all the pieces
and what parts get pushed down.
from here down as the chunk we got to send down
because this part changed and so on.
Exactly, exactly.
And yeah, like you said, it is a little bit like that.
I mean, because there's, you know,
it's not even as simple as like this,
because there is like some special handling
for things like components, you know,
are sort of managed slightly differently.
And then even kind of that, like if you had,
this is like not a great example,
but if you had multiple counters on your page,
maybe you'd want to optimize like,
well, they really just need one set of static content
for all the counters, even though we
kind of want to manage them separately.
And so there's different optimizations
like that that are done.
But yeah, everything comes from this kind of render tree
is how we can do those diffs.
OK.
Let's talk through these examples a tad more.
And we don't necessarily need this going.
But back to the--
Alessio pointed out, the HTMX example.
If you go to the HCMX website, there's a bunch of cool live examples there as well.
And literally in the page, Carson has put it such that you see these exchanges as you interact with it.
You know what I mean?
Like, that's like how significant that is.
So maybe let's pick out just a couple of the examples here that we could talk through that you think are worth pointing out.
Some of the capabilities are inspiring but not insane.
Sure.
I mean, like a really quick one is this volume control.
like the third one up at the top,
which is just, it's not like a super interesting example,
but just the thing that I like about it
is that it has like keyboard control.
So you can see like, you know,
it's super easy to just do keyboard bindings.
And this is one of those things where like-
- Just arrow keys.
- Yeah, I mean, which seems like a small thing.
- Not using the mouse, folks.
There it goes.
- Seems like a small thing,
but it's one of those things
when you start to dive into, right?
Like, you know, even like, you know,
sometimes you might wonder like, you know,
why are there all these different HTML component libraries
just like, well, you know, when you want to think about things like accessibility and
different languages and blah, blah, blah, like there's actually a lot that goes into it.
And so something like keyboard bindings is something I honestly would never take the time
to add to all that before because it seems like such an undertaking, even though like
you could say like, oh, it's simple.
You just add like event handlers to all your things and blah, blah, blah.
But yeah, it was just like slightly out of like adding to like an example project.
Right.
But now it's it's because it's built into the framework.
It's super easy and it gets treated the same as any other event.
Right. So like pressing a key up or key down to an event, just like, you know, clicking the button.
And so it's one of those. It's a simple example, but it's, you know.
Yeah. So let me describe it for listeners. So you've got this progress bar looking thing.
That's the volume control, like, you know, your standard macOS looking thing.
And it's got a mute button, a max volume, an up and down button. And these are like buttons that,
you might be used to.
But also, you can just use the arrow keys,
and it's just as if you're clicking the button.
And it all updates, even with probably one
of those CSS transitions to make it feel a little animated.
So you jump in.
Yeah.
Looks really nice.
So what about the source?
I think there's a couple of interesting things here.
First of all, the volume.html--
this looks Tailwind.
Is that right?
Yeah, this is using Tailwind.
Yeah.
- Yeah, I, yeah.
It's interesting, I feel like it's one of those things
where when I first, my first pass of this examples website
used almost no HTML CSS and was like super ugly,
but I kinda wanted to focus to be on like,
what is the, like what is like the really,
what are you really writing versus like what is, you know?
But I kinda gave in and used Talens
because it looks a lot nicer and looks more professional,
something people would wanna pick up, right?
- Yeah, I think there's a,
This gets lost sometimes in different projects,
because I look at a lot of people send me projects all the time.
And like, hey, do you think this is what we're talking about
in various venues or whatever?
Having something that looks like, oh, I wish my app looked like that
or it did like that is highly inspiring.
If you had like, hey, look, we have all of our live demos,
and they're exactly like 1993 web view appearance.
But see how easy the program is?
You're like, OK.
I know if you look at this source, it's full of P8
for padding 8 and such and such.
It's worth it.
It's so worth it.
And the HTML is just pure HTML, except for you
have these sort of attribute-driven things, right?
Right, exactly.
Maybe talk about how is the HTML different then?
That's exactly it, yeah.
So for this example, the difference is, right, for a button,
we have this phx click attribute, which
is what tells--
wires up with Phoenix Live View that when someone clicks on this,
we should send this event call.
So the first one says phx click equals down.
And so when someone clicks on that button,
we send an event to the server that just says click down.
And there's also this phx window key down,
and PHX key.
So basically, we're sending a key update for this arrow down
is one of the keys.
And so these parts are not something that I--
again, this is just the straight Phoenix--
if you were an Elixir app, it would work exactly the same way.
You could take this HTML and run it on Elixir app.
And if you had the Elixir back end,
it would work exactly the same way.
So that side looks exactly the same.
- Yeah, I mean, what's the value in renaming that to PYW?
- Yeah, I know.
And actually, I think you could.
I think they do have it,
they do have it like configurable with the client JavaScript
where you can like do a different specifier
if you wanted to, but it's kind of nice this way.
I mean, I think the other thing is too,
like in the age of LLMs, and just even examples,
like there, at this point,
there's a ton more Phoenix LiveView code
than there is PyView code.
And so if you find a good LiveView example,
it's like you can get it to work in PyView, hopefully.
Yeah, that's interesting.
So in a sense, the front end stuff
is API compatible with both back ends, maybe.
Is that it?
Yeah, sort of.
I mean, like, yeah, and like conceptually,
I mean, I think that the thing is the Phoenix Live View
has a different templating language.
So things like loops or conditionals
look totally different, right?
So you might be able to pull up an example and go,
I see how I'll do it here, but it's
Not identical.
Right, exactly.
Or if you see something, an example,
where it's just like, oh, I'm trying to do a form,
but my PHX update isn't firing, it's
like it's probably the same solution in both places.
Got it.
So then you've got the HTML side, which is pretty interesting.
Tell us about how this, what do we write over here?
Yeah.
The data exchange looks like, sorry,
the data exchange looks like you're exchanging data classes,
like the DTO sort of API aspect?
Yeah, exactly.
So, well, you can, yeah, so each live view, like, page is basically, like,
you would type it to a specific, you know, I call it a context,
like, which is, like, what, basically what's going into your template.
And so you can do, I mean, it doesn't have to be, I like using data classes.
It can be a data class.
It can be a type dict.
It could be a Pydantic class.
It could probably just be a regular dict.
I don't know that I've ever tried that, but I think that should work.
But it's just really just for the typing, you know?
And it's what we'll get past here in template.
And then, you know, so maybe it's worth talking through,
like there are, there's these sort of different lifecycle components.
And so like with your view, there's like,
the first thing that gets called is there's this mount command.
And that gets called any time, I mean, when your view gets instantiated.
So when someone visits the page,
we're going to create an instance of your class,
your LiveView class, and mount will get called
with the socket, which is, I mean,
probably going to be more detailed than that,
but that's kind of like your interface
to the communication.
It's not the web socket necessarily.
It's more like how you interoperate with the system.
And then also the session.
So if you want to copy stuff over from the HTTP session,
like user information or whatever,
you can copy that over in the mount to your data.
Then after that, and it actually gets called--
well, I'll talk about that later.
But then after that, there's an optional-- it's not shown in this example,
but there's an optional handle params change,
which gets called with path parameters or URL parameters.
And the reason that's separate is because your class might get just instantiated once
when the page is viewed.
But you might have programmatic navigation that's not real navigation,
It's like JavaScript navigation where maybe for things like filter options or pagination options,
you want to put those in the URL so that it's kind of bookmarkable and shareable.
You don't want to do a full page reload.
And so anytime those get changed, including on the initial page load, we'll call a handle params method.
And you don't have to implement that if you don't care about it.
In this case, a volume is the volume. It doesn't matter where the volume is.
Exactly.
Yeah, but you might want to be able to bookmark, like, this is a good volume or whatever.
And I think the counting example does have that just to kind of show how it would work.
I see.
So in that sense, you get a bit of a deep linking into it.
Exactly.
That's cool.
Yeah.
Okay.
And again, it takes advantage of this kind of JavaScript navigation that you can initiate
from the front end or from the back end.
Like, on the front end, you can initiate a navigation transition that will basically tell
the backend, hey, change your prams to this, and the browser takes care of reading the prams and
changing the state. Or on the backend, you can also tell the frontend, oh, hey, because you did
this, I want you to change the URL to be blah, blah, blah, and here's what the new URL should be.
So you can do it both ways. And then the render method gets called. And it's not shown here,
because the kind of base class basically for the render method,
it looks for a template file called whatever.
This is volume.py, so it looks for volume.html,
and it uses that as your template.
It also will look to see if there's a volume.css,
and we'll just kind of inject that in as the CSS for this, if it exists.
But if you wanted to override render, you can,
and that's how the T-Street rendering works,
is you basically do provide a render method
that returns a T string.
So after all that is done, so that actually happens twice.
It happens once for the HTML render,
and then it happens again for the Live View render.
And those are handled separately, partially
because that's how Phoenix Live View does it,
but also because some things are different.
Like for the initial HTML render, some things are not available.
Like you can't do Pub/Sub stuff to subscribe to channels.
You can't do scheduling stuff.
It's a little bit more limited to what you can do.
But anyway, that's a separate step.
And then after render, if an event comes in,
this handle event gets called.
And what you're showing here for the volume control
is kind of like my V1 of the event method that basically just
takes an event.
So there's one method called handle event that takes the event
and the payload, which is a dict of the options.
Then you have the socket.
And so you can see here, it's just a bunch of if-else.
Like if the event is key update, then just take the key as the event name.
If it's on or off, change the, if it's off or they hit the left arrow, then set the volume to zero.
If it's on or they hit the right arrow, set the volume to 100.
And then there's some stuff that just kind of bound the volume at the end.
And so that's all you do is you kind of basically, this handle event method gets called.
You're updating your state.
And then after this gets called, automatically,
your render method gets called again.
And basically, you're just re-rendering with the new state.
And then again, on the back end, we're figuring out,
like, OK, last time you rendered this tree,
now you're rendering this tree.
What changed?
I'm just going to send what changed.
It looks very, I don't know, view or data binding-like in here.
So when things start up, you say the context of this thing
is an instance of the volume class.
And then all you write in your code
is like socket.context.volume equals the various--
plus equals 10, minus equals 10, or equals 0.
And somehow, PyView says, OK, I've
wrapped this thing in some kind of responsive or something
that detects the changes, right, somehow?
Right.
Well, yeah, actually, yeah, I mean,
we're not even that smart right now.
I mean, we could be-- and I think ThingsLiveView
is a little smarter about it, where they do wrap and kind
of see if they-- but for this, basically, we just always render.
I see.
So you re-render the page and just go,
what is actually different about--
Exactly.
Oh, I see.
When I re-rendered with new data, then the volume value
changes.
Exactly.
But it is really nice, because like you're saying,
it's like you don't really--
your application logic becomes really simple because it's really just,
yeah, I update my state and then I know how to render my state object.
And I don't really care about whatever.
And even this handle event method, it's not really, I mean, I don't know.
It feels like it'd be a little bit of a stretch to call it stateless because you're rotating state.
But at the same time, you don't really care where this state object came from.
It's like, given this event, how would I transform this state?
Yeah, it's got a very strong view.js feel like I just changed the properties of the thing and something makes it happen that it goes back to everywhere this value is used, it changes.
Exactly. And that's really how it works. I mean, that's the kind of cool thing, you know, where we're talking about HTMX, where, you know, you have to be really intentional about like, OK, like how do I want to segment, you know, what I'm changing?
And, you know, when I do this, I know I want to change this part of the render, this part of the render.
And with this, you don't really have to think about it, right?
Like, you just change what you want to change,
and the part of the template that needs to change will naturally change
because we're treating it as, like, this diff operation, you know?
Yeah, yeah, cool.
Let's do one more example, something that kind of shows off what's possible.
Okay.
Well, gosh, there's two things I'd want to show.
But, like, we could do, like, the Maps thing,
which is just, like, a way how to integrate with JavaScript
and then also maybe, like, one of the newer things
like the T Street version of the counter.
Okay.
Yeah, so we'd look at the Maps one.
And so this is like very simple,
but this is the thing that like, you know,
I think, you know, the thing with like frames
with PyView and other frameworks is like,
I think maybe people try to bucket into like,
oh, you like, you know, hate JavaScript or whatever.
And like, no, I don't hate JavaScript.
JavaScript is great at doing JavaScript things.
And you do need to like integrate with JavaScript
a lot of the times.
And there's a lot of really great, rich, interactive JavaScript things that wouldn't really make sense to do in the server.
So this is an example of a Maps thing using Leaflet.js, which is like a JavaScript library that uses OpenStreet map data for doing like a Google Maps kind of style Maps view with tiles and stuff like that.
And so this example just kind of shows like, you know, the events.
You know, basically there's this hooks system is what they call it on the Phoenix Live View side and call it the same thing.
But basically, it's a way to kind of like, you know, we saw things like, you know, PHX key, you know, click, you know, blah, blah, blah is kind of built in event system.
So running JavaScript hooks is a way to kind of let you integrate custom JavaScript and have access to that same event system.
So for this, there is a JavaScript component, which is kind of like a wrapper over, not really a wrapper, but a wrapper over some JavaScript stuff that handles this.
And so we have events going two ways.
And so when you click on one of the things in the sidebar,
it sends something to the back end saying,
oh, update your state to say you have
this national park selected.
And then the back end also sends a--
I'm getting mixed up with this.
I think when you click on the marker,
that's where the JavaScript sends the event to the back end.
Yeah, yeah.
Larry, this is cool.
If I click-- so let me describe it for people.
So we've got on one side a map of the United States,
and on the left a nice list of the different national parks,
the famous ones.
If I go entirely into this JavaScript thing
and I click on something in the map, one of the points
of interest, which is one of these parks,
it communicates back to PyView and is selecting it
in the list, the Python bit.
But then again, if I click in the Python bit,
like Glacier National Park or one near me,
the Olympic National Park, right?
Then it will then drive the JavaScript.
So this is the bi-directional thing you're talking about.
This is very cool.
- Right, exactly, yeah.
So the JavaScript part has access to
like a similar component system where it's just like,
oh, if I get this event, I think I call it like highlight park.
Then I know that like, oh, I need to like,
you know, turn this marker on.
And going the other way, the JavaScript has like,
in its own handling like, oh, when this happens,
and I should call this method on the LiveView.
And so your LiveView side, like your Python side,
stays the same where it's still doing event handling
and also sending events if needed to the front end.
But you can get access to like--
so maps, drag and drop stuff is a big one,
even like really rich editors.
Like I've done something with using like CodeMirror,
which is a really nice IDE kind of editing experience
in the browser.
And so you can still--
I think the thing with PyView, right, is it's not--
I don't know, for me anyway, it's not about technology-focused.
I only want to use Python.
I want to have great web experiences, whatever that takes,
but in a simple way that I can understand and debug
and test, right?
So yeah.
Yeah, this is a very impressive app, I think.
Yeah, I mean, I look at it as like, wow, that would be kind of a big project to build.
And my feeling is it wasn't that big of a deal with PyPy.
No, it's very, yeah, that's kind of part of the fun thing with PyPy.
Like making these little examples is like super fun and also like pretty easy.
Yeah, so a similar one, there's like that Kanban board one, just to quickly talk.
It's a similar thing with drag and drop, but the same kind of concept.
I want to throw out maybe like just thinking back to that map one real quick before we move on.
It feels like this would actually be quite relevant for data scientists as well, right?
Like, I don't think you build it as data science, but there's a lot of like, oh, we need to build a dashboard that updates based on whatever.
And we need these different visualizations.
And with the JavaScript integration, I feel like you probably could do some pretty cool stuff.
Yeah, no, for sure.
Yeah, for sure.
And I've done, and I think there are a lot of really great JavaScript, like, graphing libraries.
Like, one that I've used before is something that I learned about just from figuring out that it's what, like, Google Notebook, like, Google Cloud, you know, their, like, Jupyter Notebooks thing uses.
called Altair.
And that's something which is cool
because there's basically a Python backend
for generating the graph data.
But then the front end is this JavaScript thing.
And so I don't think I...
I should put an example of that,
but I've used it at work
where we just have a very simple graph hook
that wraps the Altair library
and the backend generates the graph in Python code.
And it's just super easy to display and things like that.
And to your point, Michael,
one of the really cool things with PyView
is because everything is over WebSockets,
Any server push stuff, like if data comes in or data changes, it's really no work to tell the browser to update to the new state.
It's super, super easy to do, which is cool.
That's awesome.
Yeah, so the one other thing I wanted to touch on quickly is just because I think the first example we looked at the volume was kind of using the older event.
So if you look at maybe the basic counter T-string version, like the source for that, I mean, it's the same kind of counter example.
But the source is like, I think there's a count t-string
file you probably have to click on.
And then it's the third one in the list there.
But so this is just to talk a little bit about--
again, it's a work in progress.
But the first version of the events
was like, oh, there's a handle event method
that all events go to.
But that gets to be a little bit of a drag.
And so we added this @event decorator.
And so you can kind of--
instead of having handle event, oh, was the method increment?
wasn't decrement, you can just say add event decrement,
add event increment, and have those separate functions.
And then this is also showing the kind of T-string templating
where you use two strings to generate it.
And the cool thing with this too is on line 58,
you can see basically we're calling self.button,
which is a T-string template, and then we're passing in
self.decrement, which is the method.
And so you can kind of like--
I mean, it's basically just doing that binding for you
automatically where it ends up--
OK, hold on, hold on.
So people-- you have a t-string, which is kind of Jinja-like.
And in here, you have a format statement.
And one of the values you're putting in here
is literally the function that has the decorator that
is an event.
And then that gets called back through all the magic.
Yeah and it's like it's it's a it's like I think it's it's cool that it looks like magic,
but it's I mean, it's really not magic. I mean the thing it's like doing the simplest possible
thing where basically it just it's saving you from like if you look at that that button method
the button template. It's saying like button phx click click equals I see. Okay. So you've
created a wrapper function that then basically writes the component yeah that that'll wire up all
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
Yeah, but this is something I think I'm really excited about
because it's like, you know,
like one of the things that you really want to have,
like after you've been making a complex app,
is a way to have components.
And that was kind of challenging in the templating system
that I originally, you know, started using.
Not just to have components,
because you can have includes and stuff like that,
but to fit into like the Phoenix Live View component system.
But I think t-strings are exciting for me
because it makes things like this really powerful.
And you think about like, you know, just even things like, you know, having really smart forms and form binding.
And I have some of that, but it's a little clunky.
And I think being able to have like really nice, reasonable components that leverage t-strings,
make it so you have something that kind of looks very magically, but it's, you know, it's basically just, you know, templating.
So, but I'm excited about it.
I think it'll make a lot of things easier and easier to kind of share, you know, comments.
I love it.
I really like the programming here, the API.
We've got a little bit-- not a lot-- a little bit of time left here.
So let's touch on, actually, just a couple of things.
I think one of the issues that--
I talked about some of the magic, like some of these frameworks,
like hide away all the things.
Another one where there's these front and back end
connected all Python, they feel like sometimes you're like, OK.
And the way that works is you run it on our cloud system.
You know what I mean?
Or you run it on our special bit of infrastructure.
And then thoughts immediately go to, well, how durable?
How proven is that?
Like, we use Kubernetes?
Could we do it there?
Like, gosh, I don't even know.
So let's talk about some of the internals.
And at its heart, this is Starlet, right,
which is the same as FastAPI in a sense
in terms of how it runs, right?
Exactly. Yeah, it's Starlette is doing, you know, all the heavy lifting, you know, and.
It handles the web sockets and everything for you, right?
Yeah, the web sockets, the HTTP, the routing, you know, even middleware, also the authentication, like using it for the authentication.
I had to do a little bit of work to make that available at the WebSocket level.
Because it handles all the routing, but just the way LiveView works is there's really one WebSocket connection that's getting managed.
And then internally, there's routing that's done by the framework.
I see.
Because you never set that up, right?
You don't manage different sockets in different clients.
Like you're just like, I just want to handle event.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Okay.
But, but yeah, but, but, but, but under the covers we're using like, yeah, they're, they're
all system and framework.
And so if you have, if you use that or familiar with that, it's, it's exactly the same.
It's just that we make it also available.
I kind of like, you know, for the, at the live view specific layer.
But, but yeah, that's, that's, so anywhere you can run Starlette and, you know, I've been
mostly like, you know, using it.
So that examples website that we're looking at,
that is itself a PyView app that is using just
Yuvacorn, the place of Docker container.
And that's primarily how I've been using it for apps
that I've been writing or at work is just a Docker app
with Yuvacorn.
But presumably, yeah, any HGI thing you could use.
So yeah, there's no magic there.
Yeah, anywhere you want to run it.
The one thing is, this is something that's
kind of more of a future thing, but part of--
that you don't have to use for a lot of apps,
but some of the stuff like presence,
like pubsub stuff that we have built in,
just because it's kind of something
you want to have when you have this kind of framework
like you can do stuff very easily.
Like I have an example of this, but like,
oh, this user joined this page, this user left the page,
and doing things like that.
I don't have a way right now for that to be like multi-machine.
That's really just single machine pubsub implementation
So something I'm working on for the future.
But yeah, there's no special requirements.
Anywhere you're running a Starlette app or Fest API app
or whatever should be totally fine.
You do want to have sticky sessions set up
because it does require you going to the same machine
because we have this persistent state for the user.
Yeah, that is tricky with WebSockets.
I've been dealing with that for a project I'm working on.
it's challenging because like okay the natural inclination and a lot of the recommendation is
oh you're gonna how many workers do you want your uveacorn or your granion to run yeah and oh if you
need to scale up you just put behind a load balancer yeah i think it's i i agree with you it is it is
challenging but i think it's like i think it's it's a solvable challenge and i think also like
it depends on kind of the app that you want like for some use cases i mean you know the sticky part
you kind of need right now anyway.
But for some use cases, maybe you don't care about
the PubSub or the presence, or maybe you have
a way to deal with that already.
If you don't care about PubSub or presence, then
as long as it just sticks to...
As long as it just sticks. And even the stickiness, I feel like there's
potential solutions there, right? Because like
with the model, it really
is like, you know, like
we saw in examples, like you
get past this context to operate
on, you make changes to it,
and you don't really care
like where that came from or where it's running.
And so theoretically, I think it feels like
there could be a situation where that is somehow distributed
or there's some kind of shared storage
or, you know, it doesn't seem like impossible.
I don't know that it'd be worth the complexity
for a lot of use cases, but I feel like there's sort of challenge.
And the PubSub stuff, I think, is something that, you know,
I plan to kind of address.
So I think, again, it's like if you're okay with running Redis,
then that's a very solvable problem too,
having like multi-machine PubSub.
Right, right, right.
Redis or Valkey have like this WebSocket broker thing,
kind of which will manage, basically,
I imagine like your WebSocket connection talks
to your server, which then like puts you in the session
of a Redis or Valkey one,
but then that thing actually does the Pub/Sub across.
- Yeah, and that could be interesting for like,
I mean, like one of the early things I was thinking is like,
oh, could I could deploy this with like,
ABUS Lambda, you know, which like seems kind of impossible,
but then they do have like with their API gateway,
they have like a WebSocket broker
where they manage WebSocket connections
and you just kind of get events like,
oh, this WebSocket client 125 joined, whatever,
and then you kind of manage that.
And it kind of would be cool, just, I don't know,
if a proof of concept or just if you really wanted
to host on Lambda or something like that,
but it's not, I don't know that I'll get to that
anytime soon, you know, but I did.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, certainly an interesting project
with the way it is.
and could certainly go farther.
A lot of the frameworks that are good at this scale out,
they don't have any presence or collaboration.
So it's fine.
Yeah.
No, it's a good problem to have.
But yeah, something we'll figure out at some point.
But I think there's still a lot of co-ops
you can write without it.
So it hasn't been a huge priority.
No, it's very, very neat.
All right.
So I got two quick questions for you here.
One, you mentioned LLMs at the beginning.
How do LLMs do with writing PyView?
And do you have tips for making it more knowledgeable?
Do you have some sort of specification
file you can give to Claude or something and say,
I know you might not be familiar with this,
but here's what it is.
Now I'm going to ask you questions to work with it.
That's a really good push.
I feel like I should do something like that.
So I have used elements to write application code,
like using PyView framework like you're describing at work a lot.
And it's been mostly successful.
I think one of the things is it helps
that the templating language--
we're not using 3.14 at work yet for these projects.
And so we're using the older style templates.
it helps that that language is very, very similar to Jinja 2.
And so that's been great.
It does get confused sometimes where, obviously,
we don't have the same set of built-in filters.
And so I might try to use a filter that's only in Jinja 2
that we don't have or that includes syntax
is slightly different.
So those that gets tripped up on--
I think I've had a lot of success
with just really simple prompts like this is PyView.
It's Phoenix LiveView, but in Python.
And that's gotten a lot of mileage,
just even something basic like that.
- It sounds like you could create a Claude skill
or an agent or just a set of really structured rules files
and maybe put it on the docs and say,
here, grab it and throw this in.
- I for sure should do that.
Yeah, I don't think that'd be helpful for me too.
I think that's something that I kind of,
yeah, just even personally wanna get better at
is like, yeah, I've been using these tools a lot
for development and they've been great,
but I've been somewhat lazy in terms of like
improving my workflow and I do see how it's like very successful when people
kind of structure these things a little better in terms of like having custom
commands or yeah, like agents that know about specific things.
It does seem like.
But I do think that your cookie cutter helps.
Right.
Cause it's, it says, okay, here's, here's the structure.
Here's a little working bit of it.
Now keep building on that.
That goes a long ways.
Oh, for sure.
And I think even like having things like the just file seemed to help in terms
of like, it doesn't, you know, it knows like, Oh, to run tests or on just tests.
to run type check or run just type check.
Like it kind of knows a lot of this stuff,
doesn't have to guess about it,
but it kind of would be useful.
I do find it like, it's funny.
It seems like the LMS get confused a lot about like,
oh, do I need to run poetry run versus just Python?
And it seems to always forget like
how your project is set up, you know?
- Yeah, I know.
You gotta keep reminding it.
All right, so that was question one.
The question two, final question.
What's the roadmap?
You open to contributors.
Where are we?
Yeah, so like you mentioned, it's very early days,
and I've tried to be conservative about breaking changes,
but I think as we start getting closer to 1.0,
I think I'm at 0.8.0,
there probably will be some breaking changes
because as we've already seen in some of the examples,
I've gone through multiple iterations of how do I make this easier?
How do I make this easier?
And that's been a big focus for me
is making it really developer-friendly and simple.
And so I think I'll try and make some stuff a little more cohesive
So there may be some breaking changes.
But yeah, I mean, I want it to be super easy to get up and running,
and I feel like there's work to do there.
I think the short-term roadmap is, again, I want to keep working on
documentation updates, examples.
I saw a really great YouTube talk recently called "Verbs Not Nouns"
by Brian McDonald about how to make your documentation more task-based.
What is the person trying to do versus expanding technology?
So I want to do that.
Like I said, I think the T-string templating is very exciting in terms of making that better,
figuring out the CSS story around that. That's one thing that's annoying is writing CSS in
t-strings because you have double escape all the curly braces. Better form support. I have some
initial form support that uses Pydantic. But I want to make that a little better. And at work,
I've had situations where we have very complex nested forms.
And I would love to get to a point where it's just like, yeah, you just throw, here's my
pandemic data model, make a form with error handling and all this stuff and validation.
And I kind of want to get there.
And then I think, again, larger examples, I think you called out the Phoenix Live View
Pi Beats example.
They have this very big music player.
And I have some things like that where I have an AI chat example that are slightly larger,
but coming up with some more examples to kind of inspire people,
like what can actually be done.
Could you fully implement the live beats thing in PyView?
Yes, I can.
And I was thinking about doing it.
I think, you know, it's a little, it's interesting,
like the history there.
I mean, I don't know, like the real,
but like my intuition is that like part of it was that
as they were building certain technologies,
they wanted to show them off and have a good test bed.
And so like the way that it works is like based on like file uploads,
like you upload MP3s that you want to play.
And I feel like that's, I mean, it's because they wanted to show off the file upload stuff, which was new at the time, I think.
And I could do that.
I have file upload support.
In fact, I have like even multi-part S3, like very advanced file upload support.
But I was thinking about doing it, but just doing streaming.
You know, I think I found like a streaming service that is for like royalty-free music if you're using it in a non-commercial way.
And I think that might be more exciting to show off like present stuff and even some JavaScript integration stuff and like synchronizing stuff.
So, and I think also like I have a simple AI chat thing, but I think maybe biffing up a little bit would be kind of cool too.
Because I know people are into AI stuff, but you mentioned like contributions.
And I think, yeah, for sure.
I think the thing that like, to be honest, would be the most helpful is to have people like, you know, try it, try writing an app, a simple app or a complex app, whatever.
And like, I really want to hear like, you know, what works well, like what's rough, what's confusing, like what could be better, like any feedback.
yeah more than people contributing features
it's people just using it to make sure it works
and giving feedback on how it should be right
yeah no and contribution features are good too
I mean I recently set up
also just a call on GitHub
the repo there's also like a discussions thing
it doesn't have a lot of things right there
I mean there's two topics right now
but you know because I do want to get more feedback
and encourage feedback
and like I think that's a great place to put features suggestions
but yeah I mean contributions are
also welcome
But I just can't underscore enough how much I want to have feedback.
Because, again, I want it to be a really great app that people feel is fun to use.
And they like using it.
And it's easy to get started.
And I know that it's not there yet.
But any help to getting there would be great.
Yeah.
Very cool.
Well, Larry, thanks for being on the show.
Very cool project.
I think people should certainly at least give it a look to see.
Maybe it'll help them go get their app up and running.
Nice little interactive app way quicker than maybe they thought they could.
Yeah, thanks so much, Michael.
Yeah, I really appreciate the chance to come on and talk to you about this.
It's been a lot of fun.
I can't believe how much we talked about and how much more we could talk about.
I've got a browser full of tabs of things we didn't even get to.
Yeah, sorry.
Now that's how it goes.
All right.
Thanks for being here. Catch you later. Bye, everyone.
Bye.